The Australian maritime industry is composed of a blue water or trading fleet, and  vessel operators that are contractors to the offshore oil and gas industry. The trading  fleet is comprised of 66 vessels which are predominantly dedicated to carrying cargo  (e.g. oil tankers, bulk cargo and container carriers). These vessels mostly operate in  coastal trades, with a small number involved in regular international trade. Vessel  operators in the offshore oil and gas industry provide and/or crew 50 specialised  vessels. These vessels service companies involved in the exploration, development  and production from oil and gas fields in the coastal waters of Australia and to a lesser  extent in South East Asian regions.  Historically, the physical rigours of working and living at sea have been accepted as  'part of the job'. In line with international trends over the last five years, the Australian  maritime industry has undergone major reforms to improve efficiency and  competitiveness. These reforms have altered aspects of the physical and cultural  environment of seafarers. The 'romance of the sea' is now characterised by small crew  sizes, increased technology and little or no time ashore in foreign ports. The impact of  these changes on the stress, fatigue and health of seafarers is not known. This  prompted the Australian Maritime Safety Authority to initiate a project to investigate  this problem.  The present study describes the health and lifestyle behaviours of a large sample of the  Australian seafaring population. It also examines levels of stress reported by seafarers,  and attempts to explore those factors which most contribute to work stress in the  maritime industry. No attempt has been made in the investigation to differentiate  between the &quot;blue water&quot; and the &quot;offshore&quot; sectors.  The importance of this document to the history of the Australian maritime industry is  substantial. It is the first report to present information on the entire industry, and as  such provides a benchmark for consideration of future industry reform for the benefits  of seafarers and other industry groups. Additionally, it contributes to the international  maritime database.
