Agent-based modelling offers a way to break from the crude  assumptions of mean-field type models, which ignore space  correlations between elements of the system and replace local  interactions with uniform long-range ones. Multi-Agent Systems  (MAS) explicitly model spatially distributed individuals; however  the richness of such a model can also be a liability due to the  sensitive dependence of such high-dimensional systems. This has  implications for choice of MAS architecture, programming of rules,  confidence in predictions, and calibration of model parameters.    Delay-embedding, also known as geometry from a time  series, provides a deep theoretical foundation for the analysis  of time series generated by nonlinear deterministic dynamical  systems. The profound insight of embedding is that an accessible  variable can explicitly retrieve unseen internal degrees of  freedom.    In the domain of complex systems modelling, however, there  typically exist an abundance of observables, in which case  reconstructing hidden degrees of freedom may be problematic or  even nonsensical. Also, many observables often implies high  dimensionality, which generally precludes a dynamical systems  approach in the first instance. Un-cautious use of  delay-embedding, from which it is easy to get a result  regardless of physical justification, has in the past led to a  degree of negative press for this idea.    However, the recent extensions of Takens' delay-embedding theorem to  deterministically and stochastically forced systems  provide a rigorous framework in which to reconstruct using multiple observables. This  holds great significance for pattern discovery in complex data  series, which we define to be more than one series - spatial,  temporal or a mixture - of an underlying complex system. In  particular, the concept of a bundle embedding highlights a  way to usefully employ the 'surplus' observables in the embedding  process. More generally, forced embeddings provide a methodology  to breakdown complex system data sets in a modular fashion, while  still retaining nonlinear relationships.    Cluster-Weighted Modelling is a sophisticated approach to density  estimation that, when applied to the output of a delay-embedding  process, is able to obtain a statistical representation of the  dynamics. These two concepts - forced embeddings and density  estimation - provide a promising theory and a practical  probabilistic interpretation respectively to the 'inverse problem'  of system identification.    Expert-knowledge based MAS construction and density-estimation of  delay-embedded data can therefore be thought of as two  complementary approaches to the goal of bottom-up, complex systems  modelling. The original contribution of this paper is to present the latter  as a highly data-driven approach to MAS construction in its own right,  and, perhaps more importantly, as an aid to constructing and calibrating  the more expert-knowledge rule-driven approach. The emphasis is on a  solid theoretical and conceptual foundation.    To illustrate the feasibility of our approach, preliminary implementation results for an  ecological modelling scenario are presented and discussed.
