A policy shift in the last decade or so has led to an emphasis on demand side  subsidies in the form of rent assistance and decreasing importance placed on the  supply of public housing for low-income people. This initiative has led to an  increased need for low-income people to rely on the private rental market for longterm  accommodation. This Positioning Paper presents a framework for examining the  impact of &quot;security of tenure&quot; on low- and moderate-income renters in the private  rental sector in Queensland. While various researchers have applied the term  &quot;security of tenure&quot; to interpret findings and located the principle within varying  frameworks, usage of the term encompasses a common core of meanings that all  refer to the provision for continued occupation of a dwelling. In this context, it has  become identified with specific initiatives (such as enhancing access to longer-term  leases or reforms oriented to just-cause eviction) aimed at promoting key housing  policy outcomes such as stability, independence and choice.  The project informed by this paper specifically examines the current demand for  various measures associated with legal provisions for security of tenure on the part of  low- and moderate-income renters in Queensland. An important context for this  examination is the very high levels of mobility displayed by this group in the private  rental sector. A key question for policy makers is the extent to which this mobility is  due to issues associated with insecurity of tenure, and the strategies that could be  employed to provide greater choice with respect to mobility through intervention.  Aim Of The Project  This study is to investigate the extent to which low- to moderate-income households  actively choose to move between dwellings, and what level of importance these  households attach to security of tenure. The objectives of the study are to better  understand:  ·  The experiences and expectations of security of tenure among low-income and  other groups of private renters;  ·  The extent to which security of tenure is regarded as important by private renters  vis-à-vis housing flexibility in the private rental market;  ·  For whom, and in what circumstances, increased security of tenure in the private  rental market would be attractive; andHow increased security of tenure might alter the housing careers of private  renters, including demand for housing assistance. (Housing assistance to include  public housing private rental (bond loans) and homeownership assistance).  Policy Context  The capacity of the private rental market to meet the needs of consumers requiring  longer-term accommodation in the sector is a critical policy question. Private renters  currently display very high levels of mobility. For those seeking to move to public  housing, insecurity of tenure is often cited along with problems of affordability as a  motivating factor. In seeking to address the research questions listed above, the  study will fill an important knowledge gap by:  ·  Providing data on access - and priorities attached to - security of tenure in  selected Queensland regions;  ·  Identifying commonalities and differences in needs of different segments of the  private rental market with respect to security of tenure;  ·  Providing information on how renters balance and trade off different aspects of  private rental housing (for example, balancing security with affordability); and  ·  Providing indicators that can be used as a benchmark of housing security with a  specific focus on the private rental market, including appropriate measures and  methodologies.  Methodology  The major source of data for this study will be gathered through a telephone survey  of 1,000 private rental tenants from inner Brisbane and the city of Ipswich. The  current research will build on earlier survey work that has tapped similar concepts  (for example, mobility, housing decision compromises) but extend the scope of the  survey consistent with the proposed conceptual framework. Interviewees for the  current study will be drawn from Queensland’s Rental Tenancy Authority’s bond  lodgement database.  To inform the construction of the survey instrument, two focus groups were  conducted to generate possible meanings of security of tenure amongst low- to  moderate-income renters. Combined with the findings from the literature review, the  focus group material helps identify the scope of the questions required in the survey  so that the complexity of the meanings, value and influence of security of tenure  considerations in housing decision-making can be thoroughly canvassed.To enhance the robustness of the researchers’ interpretation of the survey data, a  second set of focus group discussions will be undertaken. Focus group participants  will be asked to clarify any significant patterns of convergence and divergence, which  emerge from the preliminary analysis of the survey responses.  Conclusion  The research informed by this paper will identify the importance of tenure security in  the private rental sector in the context of renters’ needs for flexibility due to labour  market, family, income and other constraints. The study will provide information on  the expectations and experiences of tenure security on the part of different low- and  middle- income renters. It will identify the categories of renters for whom tenure  security is a critical issue and explore the likely impact of greater tenure security on  their housing careers.
