After independence, Botswana adopted an education system which was basically a three-tier one: primary, secondary and higher academic education. Because of this linear type of education system, Botswana lagged behind in the technical field. She has to rely on expatriates for the needed technical manpower. Ultimately, the government saw that, it was necessary to introduce technical subjects into the secondary school curriculum to provide a foundation for the needed technical manpower. These technical subjects included Woodwork, Metalwork, and Technical Drawing and of late Design and Technology, which embraces all of the above, mentioned subjects.    The introduction of technical subjects in the secondary school curriculum compelled Botswana to ‘home grow’ her own teachers for practical subjects. A diploma teacher-training course (technical studies) for Batswana was devised and introduced in the then Botswana Polytechnic.    The trends in technology education were changing worldwide and to bring Botswana in line with international thinking in the field of technology education, in 1988 the Ministry of education engaged the services of a specialist to review the traditional technical subjects curriculum. This was also in line with what the former President Sir Ketumile Masire once echoed, ‘education must be responsive to the needs created by development and hence our policies must be continually under review … (Crowder, 1983:v). This review led to a report by Fox who recommended that,  A new name should be chosen or other of these distinctive educational categories. It is suggested that in Botswana schools for 6-18 the new subject be called ‘Design and Technology Education’. (1988:4.42)    Following this recommendation, in 1990, Design and Technology was introduced in three selected senior secondary schools. The pioneering schools were Lobatse, Swaneng and Shashe and thereafter, these were followed by all other senior secondary schools. With the introduction of Design and Technology, traditional technical     Subjects were phased out. During the same year, a Bachelor of Education [Design and Technology] course was introduced at the then Botswana Polytechnic to replace the diploma in technical studies, which was run by the institute. With the introduction of degree courses, the then Botswana Polytechnic was incorporated into the University of Botswana as the Faculty of Engineering and Technology.    The government realised that to bring Botswana in line with international thinking, she needs a well trained and conscientious workforce and this was necessitated by changes taking place in the country and globally. The government then adapted…  a dynamic philosophy of education that promotes economic development, political stability, cultural advancement, national unity and overall quality of life. In pursuit of these goals, education must offer individuals a long-life opportunity to themselves and to make their country competitive internationally. Ultimately, the aim of education must be adequate preparation for the world of work. (Revised National Policy of Education, 1994:3)    It is strongly believed that, this government dynamic goal could be achieved through the emphasis of technology in the education system of which Design and Technology is a major contributor.
