In 1999, Dr Marguerite Nolan conducted a research project, initiated by North Point Institute of TAFE (NPIT) and QUT, to investigate the feasibility of creating an Education Precinct in the Northern Corridor region of South-East Queensland. The corridor was identified as the area from Brisbane’s CBD in the south to Caboolture in the north, the D’Aguilar Range in the west to Moreton Bay in the east. This research resulted in the formation of the Northern Corridor Education Precinct (NCEP) which is an association between Queensland University of Technology (QUT), Brisbane and North Point Institute of TAFE (BNPIT) and Education Queensland. This area is a rapidly growing region with a projected population increase of 416,000 by 2021 which represents a 50% increase to the current population. This statistic raises issues about future infrastructure and resource needs for education and service provision in the corridor. The research found that the Corridor includes areas that exhibit high youth unemployment, low education retention rates, a large number of families from low socio-economic backgrounds, a significant number of ‘at risk’ students, and a significant number of families where no member has accessed tertiary education. A key recommendation made by Dr Nolan was that a full-time Transitions Officer be appointed to manage relationships between secondary schools, and to develop relationships and disseminate information between all partners. 1  In October 2001 QUT Carseldine and North Point Institute of TAFE jointly funded a Transitions Officer position. The Geebung and Murrumba Education Districts also agreed to co-fund an Education Queensland position to facilitate activities aimed at improving pathways, retention, and employment opportunities. During 2002 many relationships and networks were established, and as a result, initiatives and projects have developed. This booklet is a reflection on what has been achieved and highlights possibilities for future initiatives. We look forward to the ongoing process of developing seamless pathways in education, promoting strong working relationships both within and between sectors, and catering for the diverse range of student needs, so that ultimately each student will have the opportunity to achieve their full potential.
