The Youth Internet Radio Network (YIRN) explores the connection between  media technologies and citizenship, building on work by Hartley and Tacchi  on 'radiocracy' (radio, democracy &amp; development)4. YIRN combines:  1. Content creation: Establishing a network of young content providers  across urban, regional, remote and Indigenous locations;  2. Ethnographic Action Research: Researching how young people  interact as both producers and consumers of new media content and  technology;  3. Technology Innovation: Identifying how different ‘communicative  ecologies’ within the network influence and learn from each other; and,  4. Enterprise development: Understanding how culture and creativity  combined with new technologies can be a seedbed for innovation and  enterprise.  Groups of young people across Queensland will be trained in how to produce  content for a dedicated website - audio (music and speech), text (stories,  reports, journals) and visuals (photographs, artworks). In addition, the network will allow groups of young people to interact with each other and with others  (including Government) on topics and issues chosen by them - through  forums, messaging services, message boards, blogs and emails.  This research project investigates important questions about new media and  participation. If the new economy is a network economy, if the new raw  materials are information and knowledge, and if the new workforce needs  content creation skills, how will these young people set about using and  developing the YIRN network? How do creativity, access, networks and  connectivity work together - what are the results of ensuring access and  training at this level to a diverse and dispersed set of groups of young  people? How does this network work as a communication space: how will the  young people interact with each other? And how will they communicate with  Government and other agencies? When they are participating in an  interactive network are they simultaneously being citizens? Would enterprises  built around creative content be civic institutions?  This paper presents some of the challenges that face this research project as  it seeks to discover how youth civic participation might be addressed through  innovative Internet use by embracing practices that are often considered  resistant and the domain of a 'subversive youth' (Hartley 1992, 21-42).
