This paper is part of a larger study that seeks to explore Clifford’s notion of cultural production, that is, who invokes culture on whose behalf to what end (Clifford 1997), in the globalised/globalising interactions of online internationalized education. This paper specifically examines students’ contributions to the online ‘discussion’ in a core MBA unit by analyzing moments where ethnic/national culture or such cultural difference was invoked in the field of their texts with the intention of enhancing the instructional discourse. In this case study, such ‘student subsidy’ or enrichment of the instructional discourse was actively encouraged as a desirable vicarious asset made possible by having an internationalized student group. To this end, small groups for assessable online discussion were purposefully constituted to encourage such interchange between the ‘domestic’ Australian students and the ‘international’ students enrolled through a Malaysian partner institution. In other words, the regulative discourse was carefully stage-managed to precipitate an encounter with assumed cultural difference.  The analysis is concerned with who voices what claims about  whose culture, on what grounds they legitimate their knowledge, and how strongly classified and framed (Bernstein 1971) the constructions of cultural categories are in the message. Using Christie’s linguistic translation of pedagogic discourse into the intertwining of instructional and regulative registers (Christie 2002), it is argued that there are some direct, simple grammatical indices of the relative strength of classification and framing in knowledge claims. These will be explored through the use of modality, and mood choices in the instructional register. Thus strong classification is interpreted as the absence of mitigation/modality in the claim, and strong framing as the choice of declaratives that tell it how it is. Similarly, weak classification is interpreted as compromising degrees of probability and usuality expressed through modal choices, and weak framing as appeals through interrogatives for others to contribute or confirm the claim. The discussion then reflects on the degrees of insulation produced between cultural categories and how that relates to the ‘empirical condition of complex connectivity’ (Tomlinson 1999)  and local-global relations in the transnational educational institution.
