For at least two decades, the information technology (IT)-school link has dominated as one of the top issues in education.  Many government authorities around the world believe that IT, thoughtfully integrated into the curriculum, will provide students with skills necessary to compete and survive in the 21st century.  As for Hong Kong it is currently in the midst of education reform and thus the entire education community is facing the question of how to transform or reengineer our schools to bring about a holistic reform of the entire system of which the integration of IT into classroom settings is one element.      In order to effect a paradigm shift it is important that our teachers appreciate the need for the shift and are receptive to the challenge of taking up their new role as a learning facilitator. It would mean a cultural change for teachers who are only familiar with the textbook-based approach of teaching and, for those who have had no exposure to computing so far, an IT literacy challenge altogether.  Therefore active steps need to be taken to assist teachers to transit to the new mode of teaching to move them away from the traditional textbook-based approach to pedagogy so that diversified models of teaching which include elements of IT can be introduced into classrooms.  Teachers need to be able to use IT as productivity tools, and act as facilitators of learning in order to facilitate the learning of their students.  They need a keen awareness of the use of IT to support self-learning and co-operative and life-long learning.    To bring about this change the Hong Kong Institute of Education (HKIED) has recently adopted a policy for Information Technology Competency in Education (ITCE).  The Institute recognises the urgent need for our preservice education programs to explicitly emphasise integration of IT use in the subject content areas and within individual curriculum units. The study programme is now structured in such a way so as to enable students to use IT to support their curriculum most effectively throughout all modules. Through this systematic approach we sincerely hope that our students will go out into Hong Kong schools to be change agents for our next generation of students.  We hope that information technology has the potential to drive new models of teaching and learning so that in the 21st century our students can effectively integrate information technology into a context of standards-based curriculum, constructivist pedagogy, and authentic assessment.
