E-Business is expected to dramatically change the way business is conducted internationally, nationally, within states and at the local area level. Moreover, these changes are very likely to happen well within the planning time frames required for provision of transport infrastructure and services. This paper introduces a study to investigate: how will the transport task change; what will be affected; and how can the transport system respond?  The work, a joint initiative of the National Transport Secretariat [NTS], and the CSIRO/QUT Built Environment Research Alliance, in collaboration with Queensland Department of Public Works, is intended to assist Australian business and government pro-actively address the transport issues arising from e-business.   E-commerce is growing exponentially: worldwide e-commerce revenues are estimated to reach $US1300 billion by 2003. Growth in electronic communications within companies which, together with e-commerce between companies, B2B, or between business and consumers, B2C, make up e-business, is even more significant. The magnitude and speed of both these changes increase the urgency of planning, for their impacts provide forecasting challenges.    A study approach is described to consider direct impacts from e-business on Australian transport, derived demand for travel or delivery as other businesses prosper and transport related constraints to e-business in the next five to ten years.  Base line information collection: includes a review of literature and information about trends in e-business then transport and e-Business; interviews with stakeholder/experts in planning agencies, e-business companies and transport/logistics firms across Australia; appraisal of data available for on-going assessment; and contact with international experts.  Trends and impact assessment: National trends will be estimated and very important impacts or very urgent impacts selected via a ranking and rating process. Transport related productivity gains will be assessed; trends in regional Australia and international trends and experience will be reported with a final assessment of opportunities and threats for Australia.  Outputs: A series of working papers and final reports; a user friendly database of contacts, publications and data availability information for update; a research framework for identification of policy and planning levers to maximise benefits to Australia from national and global e-business activity.
