The present study was undertaken to examine the potential effects on air pollutionand traffic movement in the city of the three newly established public truck terminals inBangkok. The findings of the study reveal that the patterns of freight movement differ fromone distribution channel to another. These channels are categorized as traditional trade,wholesale and retail markets, and modern trading through chains of superstores andconvenience stores. An estimation of the emission loads from truck transportation wasmade by using empirical models and the geographic information system. The findingsshow that oxides of nitrogen (NOx) are the major emission load generated from trucks(61.73 tons per day), followed by carbon monoxide (CO) (37.72 tons per day). Emissionsof NOx from heavy-duty diesel vehicles (HDDV) are approximately twice as high as thosefrom light-duty diesel trucks (LDDT), despite the fact that the vehicle kilometre travel(VKT) of LDDTs is 7.3 times higher than that of HDDVs. Finally, the potential effects oftruck restriction policies on air pollution after the establishment of public truck terminalsare assessed through simulation studies. The results of simulation show that such truckterminals could help decrease VKT of HDDVs, but would increase VKT of LDDTs.Consequently, the terminals could help reduce emission loads of NOx by 825per cent and Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) by 860 per cent from their presentlevels. However, emission loads of CO and hydrocarbons (HC) would be higher owing tothe increase in VKT of LDDTs. This increase in levels of CO and HC is not so important,since the number of LDDTs in Bangkok is much smaller than the number of cars, whichgenerate much higher volumes of CO and HC. The current 24-hour truck restriction onthe Outer Ring Road core is more effective in reducing NOx and SPM than that on theInner Ring Road core. Further policies need to be formulated to promote the usage oftruck terminals, which can lead to further reductions of NOx and SPM.
