This Working Paper, the third in the series, reports on a literature and document search. Information and opinions are discussed about the ways in which transport is impacted by e-business, as well as the ways in which the development of e-business may be influenced by changes in the transport system, over the period 2001-2010.  The following transport implications, are highlighted:  Higher Levels of Demand for Goods and Services: due to wider choices and savings of business transaction/administration costs as conventional logistics activities, intensive paper and administration activities are replaced. Increased total vehicle kilometres by Light Commercial Vehicles [LCV] for local centre/home delivery will increase congestion, unless deliveries are made off peak; and badly affect GHG and air quality since LCV have low emissions standards, unless alternate fuel use increases.  Increased Customer Expectations/Requirements for Logistics/Distribution: tasks requiring greater flexibility and greater levels of reliability in the delivery of goods and services. Information is a critical component in the supply chain and it will drive change in logistics. B2B will mean less predictable flows, smaller orders placed more frequently and some parts of the distribution chain disappearing altogether.   Increased Freight Demand: due to wider choices of supplier/provider. Additional demand, mainly on road, given the greater flexibility, level of service, and the potential for value added services.   Higher Expectations from Rural and Remote Communities: as they take up Internet opportunities and require better standards of service from logistics providers and suppliers. The wider set of choices from consumers and producers will result in increased level of demand for freight movements.   Air Travel Increase for Both Business and Leisure: will increase due to lower costs and increased access to information and will lead to increased demand in this sector. Some redistribution of tourism to regional areas will also be expected.   Changes in Location Preferences: Small centrally located freight terminals replacing large warehouses on city fringes.  Dispersion trends [self-employment; teleworking; loss of jobs in white-collar services industry], leading to longer trips. Less reliance on CBD for commuting thus conventional public transport [fixed route/radial] will suffer continued erosion in market share. Flexible PT will be valued.   Improved Transport Network Performance: through interfaces between Intelligent Transport Systems [ITS] components and data interfaces to B2B and B2C systems. This has the potential to reduce transit times and trip time variability through improved knowledge of transport demand, as well as improved real-time data on transport network performance. Safety will also be improved.  Such co-ordination between ITS and e-business systems is likely to be implemented in practice in the medium term.
