Both the rapid speed of change and the changes in society due to the information revolution in general, poses special challenges for forecasting the future of e-business and assessing its impacts. The traditional processes of collecting information over time, describing a base case and projecting of future trends, or assessing change scenarios, encounters problems in all stages.    These challenges apply to studies of impacts on the economy in general but are greater in studies of impacts in specific industries, such as transport. More detailed information is required and more detailed outputs are expected. Almost always such studies are looking for sufficiently detailed insights on future conditions to allow plans to be put in place. This requires predictions to be linked closely to time frames and specifics of localities.   Network data adds connectivity, type of link and link capacity information to geographic mapping data of roads and railway lines. The road authorities in each state hold complete network data for their states often augmented by road condition data.    Linking capacity and linking condition may be particularly relevant to assessment of the future ability of the road or rail system to accommodate future e-commerce. This might be applied to consideration of capacity of local roads for urban freight in cities or to measure highway or railway capacity for inter-urban freight movements.    In common with workplace and industrial locations, commodity flows are likely to change with a rise in e-commerce.  It is possible these changes may occur within a five-year framework.    Examples of available data for tracking activities, which may change rapidly within a five- year period, have been divided for convenience into those relating to personal activity and those relating to business activity.  Both types of data are discussed in section three of this Working Paper.    Vehicle registration and licensing databases show locations and numbers of registered vehicle types by location. While they provide information on the passenger fleet they are of particular value in the e-business context in tracking changes in numbers and types of commercial vehicle and also in holders of commercial vehicle licences. Individual states and territories hold these databases.  In addition, the ABS also collects the data to report on an Australia wide basis.    Consideration of changes in the urban freight task is particularly important in estimating the impacts of e-business on the road system and vice versa.  For example, will e-commerce add to congestion and equally what will be the impacts of congestion on e-commerce? Until recently transport planners concentrated on commuter travel.  Estimates of future demands were modelled on passenger transport needs and the extra demands of freight were simply ‘loaded onto the network’.
