This paper seeks to identify the e-business issues that will have important impacts on transport and rank and rate their importance:  Findings   Importance will vary between stakeholders. For example, the impact of increased urban freight vehicle kilometres due to e-procurement is positive for carriers, even more positive for business but negative with regard to greenhouse gas and slightly negative for local government.    Will differ significantly by time and place so national averages are virtually meaningless in some contexts.  For example, increased awareness of tourism opportunities should boost tourism in regional areas, but we cannot average extra tourist kilometres travelled in for example, country Victoria and Central Australia.    Some ball park figures for increasing transport activity were estimated:  •	Inter-city air travel - web bookings enabling competition - 26 million extra annual kilometres between capital cities with an extra 77 thousand aircraft movements [take offs and landings] at airports;  •	Urban freight - e-procurement and just-in-time - could generate up to 30 thousand million extra kilometres by LCVs, a 100 percent increase over the total urban kilometres by LCVs in 1999, however, the increase may be constrained to nearer 50% by limited urban road space, as well fleet capacity restraints;   •	Urban shopping - small overall increase in total travel an extra 1.1 million kilometres annually by 2005 - results may seem counter intuitive; and  •	Inter-urban Freight - as urban freight plus opportunities for sourcing from further afield.  Up to 50 percent increase in intercity articulated trucks trips by 2005 [but not tonnage].  E-based Assessment of Impacts  The study demonstrates the complexity and value of proper ranking and rating. ‘Back of the envelope’ predictions, such as ‘one in five trips are shopping trips and will be replaced by online shopping’ are misleading.  Impacts need to be reported in a variety of ways.  For instance: impacts on congestion, costs, infrastructure capacity, noise or air pollution and need to be sensitive to time and place.   An e-based decision support tool could provide local, regional and national impact assessment. It would incorporate:    •	Online Access Links to appropriate data from disparate sources in agencies across the country or across the world [with access charges as required].  •	Web Enabled Assessment Models for approved users to access software updated to cope with rapid change.  The cost of providing such facilities, and of using them, would be covered many times over by the savings from costs avoided and opportunities gained.
