This is the final Working Paper in a series, reporting research into the likely impact of e-business on transport in Australia and considering the possible effects of global changes on the national transport task.  We focus on trends in North America, Western Europe and the Asia Pacific - the homes of the majority of the 304 million people now online and increase of 78 percent accessing the Internet in the past year..  Trends are discussed under three headings:  Technologies and Transport Supply: Specific enquiry into new overseas technologies of relevance to Australia found few technologies that were not trialed in some way, but, with potential for take-up being of greater interest.  International technologies of potential value included systems for compliance, accreditation; fleet and load management; and information leveraging.    Changes in External Demand: E-Commerce opens wider markets for Australian business but while ‘any Australian firm that has a web site has the potential to be an exporter’ the goods or services must still be delivered.  Australian SMEs are also benefiting, with 28 percent in the Transport and Storage industry taking up international opportunities.  The ‘push’ supply chain: is being replaced by a ‘pull’ model where customers demand goods, built to order and quickly dispatched.  Global procurement is leading to international sources replacing local sources and also new roles for transport companies.  There is also significant potential for e-business to provide the port and sea freight efficiency needed in the new environment.  Internal Impacts: Many external impacts are reflected internally.  There is also potential for online retailing applications developed in America to impact Australia.  We may also start to the see the impacts of e-materialisation, replacing physical products with virtual products.  For example, America is actually experiencing a drop in paper usage currently.   Then a set of threats and weaknesses, then opportunities and strengths were identified including negatives with fragmented implementation of technologies, tyranny of distance, increased external competition and destructive internal competition.  Positives include critical mass of global consumers, initiatives for improved industry linkages and international roles for Australian transport firms.    Finally, Transport is the Key to compete a global e-business economy.  The major challenge for Australia will not be in developing communications technologies and practices but in developing the transport technologies and practices if we are to win world markets.
