The Ultraviolet Aerodynamic Particle Sizer (UVAPS) is a novel aerosol counter for realtime monitoring of viable bioaerosols. The previous validation studies on the UVAPS were either laboratory based or were conducted outdoor with the artificially generated aerosols. In this study, the spectrometer was applied to investigate particulate pollution inside a swine confinement building (SCB). Real-time capabilities of the instrument were used to investigate the effect of on-farm-activities, such as an effluent flushing with recycled water, on microbial load inside the SCB. In addition to the UVAPS, monitoring of viable bioaerosols (bacteria and fungi) was simultaneously conducted with the sixstage Andersen microbial impactor and the AGI-30 impingers. The UVAPS measurements showed that the concentrations of both total and biological particles inside the SCB were in order of 106 -107 particles/ m3. These concentrations were approximately seven times the outside concentrations for total particles and up to 12 times for biological particles. Approximately 95 % of both total and biological particles were respirable (&lt; 7mm) and approximately 60 % of total and 50 % of biological particles accounted for the fine particle fraction (&lt;2.5 mm). The concentration of biological particles measured with the UVAPS was at least one order of magnitude higher than the concentration of the viable microorganisms measured with the AGI-30 impingers. Nevertheless, the trends in the concentration changes of bioaerosols measured with the UVAPS followed the trends in the concentration changes of the airborne microorganisms quite adequately. Thus, it was concluded that the UVAPS is an appropriate method for investigating the dynamic of bioaerosols in the SCBs. The results obtained in this study assist in advancing an understanding of the UVAPS performance in the real-life agricultural settings. In addition, the data provide a new insight on the particles size distribution inside the SCB, depending on their nature.
