It’s a great time to be an independent. With the majors distracted by  the main game, it gives us this opportunity to get in there and  concentrate on selling the records, make people aware of them … If  you’re a major record company, what you have to do is put records  out and sell records. As an independent you can jump around and do  all sorts of things, plug your CDs that are not necessarily exactly what  you were doing before … You have a lot of scope to try different  things and it’s an exciting time. (Panellist from a large independent  label)  Times are changing in the music industry and while for the major labels this is a  period of great concern — with increased piracy, digital downloading and  declining record sales — for some independent musicians at least, this flux is  leading to new opportunities. For once it isn’t all about ‘making it big’, getting  discovered or getting forgotten. Instead, some can now see a way to make a  living, doing what they love and drawing on a supportive milieu established in  Queensland over recent years.  In terms of the capacity to adapt to changing markets, the micro-businesses,  SMEs and other smaller music firms in Queensland have a distinct advantage  over the big labels. The smaller firms are more aware of and sometimes better  suited to capturing emerging local genres of music, changing market supply and  demand and transforming local cultural expressions into market niches. The  question is, is this enough for a sustainable business?  This report is the story of these independents, told partly in their words. It is part  of a series of three reports published by QUT. The first, Queensland Music  Industry Basics: People, Businesses and Markets sets out the basic  demographics of the music industry, offering a robust description of size, location  and characteristics of the sector in Queensland, and the third Queensland Music  Industry Value Web: From the Margins to the Mainstream explores the value  chain or ‘web’ in economic or industry development terms. The three reports are  outcomes from an Australian Research Council funded Linkage Project titled  “Creative Industries in Queensland: Cultural Mapping and Value Chain Analysis‿.    This is the second report in the series and its aim is to understand and exemplify  the creation of value in detail, by examining working relationships in the context  of technological change.  The study is based on twenty in-depth interviews across a spectrum of  representative members of Queensland’s music industry. Interview transcripts  were compared for emerging common themes, which were then used to develop  further questions in ensuing discussions. The respondents also suggested the  names of people who they thought were relevant and either supported or  opposed their viewpoints. This developing snowball sample was then used as a  springboard to conduct further interviews. The method is a way of capturing the  major issues the industry faces, in its own terms, without any pre-judgements  being made by the researchers.  In analysing the material, we have been influenced by Michael Porter’s work1 on  international competitiveness. Porter argued that a nation’s leading export firms  are not isolated success stories but belong to successful groups of rivals within  related industries. He termed these groups ‘clusters’, sets of firms related by  horizontal and vertical links of various kinds, including, but not confined to, inputoutput  trading linkages. Porter argued that the significance of these clusters  resides in the interaction between various factors, including the local context; the  firms themselves and their competitive strategies; the input conditions, such as  labour, available to them; the demands of consumers; and a series of related and  supporting industries. In the case of the music industry, ‘related and supporting’  industries can encompass intermediaries such as A&amp;R people, as well as other  creative sectors such as design (merchandise, or CD sleeves) and public support  bodies or initiatives.  In analysing Queensland’s music industry, therefore, we are not just concerned  with individual companies, performers or intermediaries — but we are interested  in the environment or cluster in which they work. We have considered various  aspects of the industry, including human capital or skills, public support, and the  changing ways in which consumers can now buy or experience music. The reportthus asks how well and in what ways Queensland’s music industry is responding  to these changes. A range of different firms are involved in any local music scene  — how dense are the interactions between them in Queensland? To what extent  does geographical proximity matter, or is digital technology making it irrelevant?  And to what extent can the Queensland music industry be described as a  ‘cluster’, let alone a successful cluster, if at all?  The report is presented in a series of short chapters. The next chapter will look at  what is driving change in the Queensland music scene and internationally. It  examines some of the tensions that this exposes between commerce and  creativity; about who owns intellectual property (IP) and for whose benefit, and  between a small scale, self-help culture and the realities of the global music  market.  Chapter 3 looks at the ‘DIY culture’ that has grown up in Queensland in response  both to changes in the industry and to the familiar issues of geographic isolation,  small home markets and lack of access to commercial markets. We look at how  self-help networks operate, the role of public support in nurturing them and the  links that have formed between the music industry and other creative industries in  the State.  In Chapter 4, we ask how sustainable this business model is for small  independent companies, and, if this really is a window of opportunity, how fast  that window is closing. We present the views of those who are less optimistic  about the state of the industry, examine the limitations to DIY culture and the  barriers to growth, and ask if, and how, those barriers can be effectively  challenged.  The final chapter summarises the preceding discussion and asks what, if any, is  the role for public policy in the music industry.
