'Creative industries' is a new category in academic, policy and industry discourse.  It can claim to capture significant 'new economy' enterprise dynamics that such  terms as 'the arts,' 'media', and ‘cultural industries’ do not. The United Kingdom’s  Creative Industries Mapping Document (Creative Industries Task Force, 1999 &amp;  2001) defined creative industries as 'activities which have their origin in individual  creativity, skill and talent and which have the potential for wealth and job creation  through generation and exploitation of intellectual property'. These activities  include: Advertising, Architecture, Arts and Antique Markets, Crafts, Design,  Designer Fashion, Film, Interactive Leisure Software, Music, Television and  Radio, Performing Arts, Publishing, and Software. This is a useful starting point,  but further work is required in order to inform R &amp; D strategies and policy settings  suited to Australia.  Academic research has placed the economic and social benefits of creativity on  the policy agenda. This theme has been developed into cultural policies, typically  entailing the application of neoclassical economics to the arts. An historical shift  away from subsidised 'public arts' and broadcast-era media, and towards  creativity, is under way. In order to understand this transition — and provide a  basis for evidential policy making and evaluation — empirical data at national and  state levels is essential.  The Music Industry Development and Brisbane’s future as a Creative City report,  by Flew et al. (2001) was a preliminary attempt to quantify the creative industries  in a geographical area. Based on secondary data and selected structured  interviews, it highlighted planning and, in particular, zoning issues as the barriers  to development. However it is worth noting that the focus of the study was  Brisbane and popular music.  Building on that work, the current report has examined a range of functions in the  Queensland music industry, including music performance, recording, publicity,  venues, record production and distribution, recording studios, manufacturing,  distribution and retail. It has also looked at Queensland music venues and othersites for the production and distribution of music, such as festivals. The primary  focus of the project was upon music activities taking place with the geographical  region of Queensland, although it was recognised that the music industry is  networked regionally, nationally, and internationally. It is part of an ongoing wider  study to map the creative industries in Queensland1 (see Appendix B for a  description of the sample database and questionnaire).  The current report provides, for the first time, a definitive empirical basis for policy  making and evaluation at local regional and state levels. It also provides an  insight into the interrelationships in the industry in Queensland. 'Queensland's  Music Industry: The Basics' is the first of a series of publications to support the  general understanding and development of the creative industries in  Queensland.2  1 The study, 'Creative Industries in Queensland: Cluster mapping and value chain analysis', by S.  Cunningham, J. Hartley, G. Hearn and J. Radbourne, is funded by an Australian Research Council  Linkage Grant.  2  The two additional reports are: 'Queensland Music Industry Value Web: From the Margins to the  Mainstream' by I. Rogers, A. Ninan, G. Hearn, S. Cunningham and S. Luckman. CIRAC,  Queensland University of Technology, 2004; 'Queensland Music Industry Trends: Independence  Day?' by A. Ninan, K. Oakley and G. Hearn. CIRAC, Queensland University of Technology, 2004.
