This report analyses the contemporary music industry in Queensland in cultural,  economic and industry development terms. It is one outcome from an Australian  Research Council funded Linkage Project titled &quot;Creative Industries in  Queensland: Cultural Mapping and Value Chain Analysis&quot;. It should be read in  conjunction with the two additional reports: Queensland Music Industry Basics:  People, Businesses and Markets and Queensland Music Industry Trends:  Independence Day?  The framework for this report is an adaptation of Michael Porter’s concept of a  value chain. Many aspects of music production and consumption can be  adequately described in terms of a straightforward linear supply chain. However,  in Queensland, a predominance of independent music activity means that a  purely linear value chain analysis (developed for mainstream industry practice)  needs to be modified. The music industry in Queensland is clearly comprised of  two tiers. The first is made up of the activities of major music labels and  commercially successful artists who at times attract significant sales. The second  tier - the &quot;grassroots&quot; - largely consists of independent musicians, production  personnel and producers attracting both niche and at times mainstream  audiences. Characterised by informally networked micro-economies, independent  artists, niche markets, and the exploitation of new technologies, the second tier  creates value through networking and creative entrepreneurialism. The second  tier is also of interest to cultural researchers who have tended to concentrate on  subcultural music communities and music produced outside of the mass market  first tier.  We use CIRAC’s (Creative Industries Research and Applications Centre) Music  Industry Codes (CMIC) (refer to the accompanying report Queensland Music  Industry Basics) to map and profile the players in each tier and their relationships.  The ‘value web’ is a better descriptor of these relationships than ‘value chain’.  The report demonstrates how second tier practices (such as a reliance on social  networking to achieve recordings and performance opportunities, as well as a  Do-it-Yourself – ‘DIY’ - culture and innovative business approaches) offeralternative methods for &quot;doing music&quot; and generating value in the creative  industries.  The advent of affordable recording technologies and online distribution in  particular presents opportunities as well as issues for the independent sector.  Such technologies have enabled a DIY ethos within second tier industry and  culture which plays a significant role in community infrastructure in the  independent sector. Likewise, increasing use by consumers of digital distribution  through downloading services has positive implications for Queensland music,  particularly with the further establishment of an online distribution infrastructure  for the independent sector. This could also increase the likelihood of interaction  between the independent and mainstream sectors. An online portal, which  showcases Queensland music to the rest of Australia and the world, emerges as  a potentially significant advance which aligns with strategic direction currently  being pursued in Queensland through Creativity is Big Business – A Framework  for the Future*.  Queensland’s festival culture is ideally suited to our climate and cultural sense of  self. Festivals like Livid in Brisbane support the sustainability of microcultural  businesses such as promoters, tour managers, graphic designers, publicists and  multi-media companies.  The artistic and technical needs of aspiring Queensland music workers are, on  the whole, being met in Queensland. In the area of business acumen, the report  argues that specialist skills are further required to get product to the market. The  current mentoring programs within Q-Music are well regarded by music creatives  and could be extended within the music industry.  A central issue is whether Queensland’s independent new entrants are able to  secure sufficient market share to operate profitably. Successful bands,independent labels and performers from the past few years suggest that it is  achievable. Recent technological and cultural change has given new entrants  access to consumer and niche markets. There also seems a greater readiness  on the part of the first tier to work with second tier business, who are being  increasingly seen as &quot;serious players&quot;. The stigma of second tier production  lacking in &quot;quality&quot; has largely been removed and opportunities for financial gain  are increasingly opening up.  The report identified that the independent sector in Queensland plays an  important role in the local and national music scene. Further research may well  look at how the independent sector could be &quot;branded&quot; for the further benefit of  Queensland’s creative industries.
